Architecture of a Shopify theme

A theme controls the organization, features, and style of a merchant's online store.

Theme code is organized with a standard directory structure of files specific 
to Shopify themes as well as supporting assets such as images, stylesheets, and scripts.

Shopify themes are a package of template files, building blocks, and supporting assets.

Theme files fall into three general categories. Take a closer look at how each of them 
helps customize your customer’s theme. 

Content files
These are used to control the layout and functionality of a theme using Liquid to generate 
the HTML markupthat makes up the pages of the merchant's online store.

Supporting Assets
These are assets, scripts, or locale files that are either called or consumed by other files in the theme. 
CSS is considered a supporting asset you will edit when modifying an existing theme.

Config Files
These use JSON to store configuration data that can be customized using the theme editor. 

Content files
Let's review how each theme helps to customize your customer’s site. 
We’ll start by exploring content files. 
The organization of each page is determined by the following components.

The Layout file
It is the base of the theme and hosts the repeated elements like header and footer.

The Template
Templates controls whats rendered on each type of page in a theme.
Each theme includes different types of templates to display different type of content.
Such as homepage and products.
You can create multiple templates for the same resource.
Json templates act as only wrappers for the sections, liquid templates contain the acutal code.

The section groups rendered by the layout
Containers that enable merchants to add, remove, reorder sections in areas of the layout files such as header and footer.

The sections rendered by the template
Reusable customisable modules of content that merchants can add to templates and section groups.

The blocks that each sections contains
Reusable customisable modules of content that merchants can add/remove/reorder to sections.

